SNV Consensus Methods (#65)
AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript: content/03.methods.md

We filtered outputs from both callers on the "PASS" filter, and annotated using The ENSEMBL Variant Effect Predictor [@doi:10/gdz75c], reference release 93, and created MAFs using MSKCC's vcf2maf [@url:https://github.com/mskcc/vcf2maf] v1.6.17.

#### Consensus SNV Calling

> Mutations were considered to be the same across callers if they were identical in the following MAF fields: `Chromosome`, `Start_Position`, `Reference_Allele`,  `Allele`, and `Tumor_Sample_Barcode`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We considered mutations to be the same across callers if they were identical for the following MAF fields: `Chromosome`, `Start_Position`, `Reference_Allele`,  `Allele`, and `Tumor_Sample_Barcode`.
```

> All four callers were compared in their overlap with each other, variant allele frequencies of their calls, base changes called, and genomic regions of their calls [@url:https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis/blob/master/analyses/snv-callers/compare_snv_callers_plots.Rmd].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We compared all four callers in their overlap with each other, variant allele frequencies of their calls, base changes called, and genomic regions of their calls [@url:https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis/blob/master/analyses/snv-callers/compare_snv_callers_plots.Rmd].
VarDict called numerous variants with low allele frequency (Figure? Supplementary Figure? Link to GitHub?) in addition to nearly all of the calls identified by the other three callers.
Because our filtered set was based on the intersection, we removed it from the consensus calculation.
```
Did _everything_ called by the other three callers also get called by vardict? I.e., how much does this filtering affect your results?

> As Strelka2 does not call multinucleotide variants (MNV), but instead calls each component SNV as a separate mutation, MNV calls from Mutect2 and Lancet were separated into consecutive SNVs before comparison with Strelka2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Strelka2 does not call multinucleotide variants (MNV), but instead calls each component SNV as a separate mutation, so we separated MNV calls from Mutect2 and Lancet into consecutive SNVs before comparing them with Strelka2.
```

> Based on these comparison analysis, consensus mutations called are those that are shared among all of Strelka2, Mutect2, and Lancet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We termed mutations shared among Strelka2, Mutect2, and Lancet consensus mutation calls.
```

> VarDict's calls were ignored for the consensus decisions because of its oversensitivity and overall low variant allele frequency in the calls it made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
